# Intro

## Thoughts

There are lots of sayings about machine learning or artificial intelligence as most would say. The topic became so hype that everyone is expert on it now. Some even think ML will take over the world, imo, only other planetary species will take over the world and if only they need to, given by that time, Earth may not have resources worth invading. Machine world domination apart, I decided to take some notes on machine learning (ML or AI) and share it out, mainly because it is good for young gen or even non-tech people kind of have clearer idea of what it is. From current level of interest, it looks like ML will be engrained to economy which means it will affect well-being of people who don't care about AI/ML and which will eventually may create room for political manipulation.    

ML is complicated enough topic, such that, some large AI companies do clumsy engineering with input of billions of money and quite of manpower, and create services which they can build some corporate brand on. With current technological level of AI/ML and given wave of ML community seems to be directed towards focus of data, the actual dollar value from those services in the long run is bound to shrink.  

Only hard case examples are from giant companies like Amazon, Google, Nvidia, Apple. Current state of AI seems to be working for them as they are getting value out of it. However, it is hard to reason that the value from those ML/AI related services are actually from AI/ML tech. Apple made $20 cloth and sold millions of it. This doesn't mean clothmaking is great technology or great next business. It is just Apple, bruh, they have been in business almost 3 decades. So, if Apple makes some AI service, they can sell it again, no matter how crappy that service is. 

Another logic behind the hype of current state of AI, is venture capitals are pouring money to AI. I am not sure how many of you had experience with talking people from venture capital. Venture capitals have extremely limited knowledge about AI/ML, almost no idea. You can just go with university level AI demo like NLP chatbot project that you did at University or lane following arduino project that you did on electrical engineering class, and sell it with story correlating to your background, dang, you got the funding. This is not best option to invest in your future. Startup world is too risky and needs to go through extensive thought process before diving in. You definitely don't want to find out that, after working 24/7 for 5 years, your tech actually works only in class projects. 

All these may sound critical of machine learning. Nah, I am not critical of ML, I love the ML, but, the one that is not super intelligence. There is very small intelligence on ML, and it is mostly simple deductions. Intelligence is mostly inductions and abstractions from life experiences. Ye, I am critical of machine learning that is being claimed to be super intelligence or intelligence at all. Example: If certain word1 comes after certain word2 80% of the time, and if machine can predict that particular word2 will come after that word1 80% of the time, then it is not intelligence, it is just simple deduction. This is very basic example of natural language processing that uses GBs of memory to perform it is operations. Well, it is possible to devise very efficient dictionary on GBs of memory space and map all of the word-pair or 3-4 word combinations. Imo, humans are extremely good at deductions which makes people prone to manipulation. And mostly, good manipulators are aware that people are good at deductions, and they will try to trick people to use their deductions in order to make them believe into certain topic :). That's why, even the most lame conspiracy theory will have valid sounding arguments.   

To be honest, we as society seem to be stuck in interesting vicious loop of education and experimental technology. Learning physics at University, and just to see that physics content at University has almost no correlation to industry. Learning computer science at University to see that industry moves extremely fast, such that the content that you have learnt is already outdated in a year. Same with AI, same with quantum computing in PhD level (5 years to learn technlogy that is too experimental, really?). Again, imo, most of the hard tech came out of the industry/military research not academic reseearch. E.g. IBM -> first computers, Intel -> chips, Samsung -> digital memory, Google -> search engine. 

So, I will try to bring almost everything on ML, in this series of written notes which I may eventually make audio.  

Check some links here if you are interested in some failures of AI:

[Self-driving truck company](https://www.economist.com/technology-quarterly/2020/06/11/driverless-cars-show-the-limits-of-todays-ai). To just illustrate, in self-driving applications, trucking business is considered to be the most feasible scenario where it is possible to have self-driving technology.  

[Zillow](https://www.geekwire.com/2021/ibuying-algorithms-failed-zillow-says-business-worlds-love-affair-ai/). Again, housing price prediction is the most fundamental problem set or example that is being used to explain the ML. 

Similarly, some notes on other two topics that I am into: cryptocurrency and cybersecurity. Check first notes for cybersecurity and crypto intros.

